.gitea/workflows/DEPLOY-SETUP.md, before:

# Deployment Setup Guide

This document explains how to set up the deployment workflow that updates Kubernetes manifests in the YuzuDeploy repository.

## Pre-requisites

1. A Gitea runner with Docker installed
2. Access to the YuzuDeploy repository via Personal Access Token (PAT)
3. Proper secrets configured in your Gitea repository

## Required Secrets

Add the following secrets to your Gitea repository:

1. `SCW_SECRET_KEY` - Your Scaleway registry secret key
2. `DEPLOY_PAT` - A Personal Access Token with write access to the YuzuDeploy repository

## Creating a Personal Access Token (PAT)

1. Go to your user settings in Gitea (click your profile picture > Settings)
2. Navigate to "Applications" or "Access Tokens"
3. Click "Generate New Token"
4. Give it a descriptive name like "YuzuDeploy-CI"
5. Select permissions: at minimum, check "repo" access
6. Click "Generate Token"
7. **Copy the generated token immediately** (you won't be able to see it again)
8. Add this token as the `DEPLOY_PAT` secret in your Yuzu repository settings

## Configuring the Workflow

Before using the workflow, you need to update the repository URL in the clone command to match your Gitea server address and organization/username:

```yaml
git clone https://${DEPLOY_PAT}@your-gitea-server.example.com/YourUsername/YuzuDeploy.git deploy-repo
```

Replace `your-gitea-server.example.com` and `YourUsername` with your actual Gitea server hostname and username. For example:

```yaml
git clone https://${DEPLOY_PAT}@gitea.example.org/DevOps/YuzuDeploy.git deploy-repo
```

## How It Works

The workflow:

1. Checks if git is installed, installs it if needed (for Alpine Linux)
2. Builds and pushes Docker images to the Scaleway registry
3. Clones the YuzuDeploy repository using the Personal Access Token
4. Updates the image tag in the deployment files
5. Commits and pushes the changes

This enables automatic updates to your Kubernetes deployment files whenever a new image is built.

## Troubleshooting

If the workflow fails at the Git or repository access steps:

1. Check that your Personal Access Token hasn't expired
2. Verify the PAT has write access to the YuzuDeploy repository
3. Make sure the repository URL is correct (including the domain and username/organization)
4. Confirm that the Gitea user associated with the PAT has appropriate permissions
5. Check that your runner has outbound HTTPS access (port 443) to your Gitea server

Commit message:

#6
Update deployment process to use SSH keys

- Added SSH key access as a prerequisite in DEPLOY-SETUP.md, replacing the need for a Personal Access Token (PAT).
- Updated instructions for generating and adding a dedicated SSH key as a deploy key in the YuzuDeploy repository.
- Modified workflow steps to set up the SSH key for Git operations and clone the repository using SSH.
- Revised troubleshooting section to focus on SSH-related issues.

In build-push-deploy.yml, added steps for setting up the SSH key, including creating the .ssh directory, adding the private key, setting permissions, and adding the Gitea server to known hosts. Included a test SSH connection step before cloning the repository.

.gitea/workflows/DEPLOY-SETUP.md, after:

# Deployment Setup Guide

This document explains how to set up the deployment workflow that updates Kubernetes manifests in the YuzuDeploy repository.

## Pre-requisites

1. A Gitea runner with Docker installed
2. SSH key access to the YuzuDeploy repository
3. Proper secrets configured in your Gitea repository

## Required Secrets

Add the following secrets to your Gitea repository:

1. `SCW_SECRET_KEY` - Your Scaleway registry secret key
2. `DEPLOY_SSH_KEY` - An SSH private key with write access to the YuzuDeploy repository

## Generating a Dedicated SSH Key for Deployment

1. Generate a new SSH key pair specifically for deployment:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "yuzu-deploy-key" -f ./deploy_key
```

2. Add the public key as a deploy key in your YuzuDeploy repository:
   - Go to YuzuDeploy repository settings
   - Find "Deploy Keys" section
   - Add a new deploy key with the content of `deploy_key.pub`
   - Make sure to check "Allow write access"
   - Give it a descriptive title like "Yuzu CI Deployment Key"

3. Add the private key content as the `DEPLOY_SSH_KEY` secret in your Yuzu repository:
   - Go to your Yuzu repository settings
   - Navigate to "Secrets"
   - Add a new secret named `DEPLOY_SSH_KEY`
   - Paste the content of the `deploy_key` private key file

## How It Works

The workflow:

1. Checks if git is installed, installs it if needed (for Alpine Linux)
2. Builds and pushes Docker images to the Scaleway registry
3. Sets up SSH key for Git operations
4. Clones the YuzuDeploy repository
5. Updates the image tag in the deployment files
6. Commits and pushes the changes

This enables automatic updates to your Kubernetes deployment files whenever a new image is built.

## Troubleshooting

If the workflow fails at the Git or SSH steps:

1. Verify that the SSH key has been added as a deploy key in the YuzuDeploy repository
2. Ensure the deploy key has write access enabled
3. Check that the SSH private key has been properly added as a secret
4. Make sure the repository URL in the workflow file is correct
5. Confirm the runner has outbound SSH access (port 22) to your Gitea server

If the connection fails even with correct settings, you might need to modify your Gitea server's SSH settings or consider using an HTTP-based approach with a machine user account.
